everybody I'm here one of the edges I
think's got about a fair representation
of what's an average cross the whole
garden and you can see I'm sitting at
only about three inches which is only
half of what we're supposed to be
shooting for we're supposed to get about
four to six inches on this from what
Paul recommends so you can see what I'm
working with here and I'm just really
desperate to go ahead and get this
started because we started seedlings in
the house a long time ago and if I don't
hurry up and put him out I'm gonna have
ears of corn growing off the top of my
kitchen table and not in the ground but
you can see how far I've been able to
get and it's actually about I'd say a
third of the garden probably which makes
sense I was expected to get about a
fifth of the garden with as much
woodchips as I had but that was guessing
it four inches thick and I'm using three
inches here so I got further than I then
I should have because I use less but I'm
gonna go ahead and mark some of this off
and tell you about something else we're
gonna do this year and and go ahead and
get some plants in the ground today
because we're expecting rain for the
next few days and then I'll be off it'll
be another week before I'm off again so
we got to get something in the ground a
day or we're gonna have problems okay
everybody so here's the big surprise I'm
not sure how well you can see the white
string on the white woodchips but we
have an area separated out for Square
Foot Gardening and an area separated out
for a traditional row planting so that's
what we're gonna do this year we're
going to compare Square Foot Gardening
method versus a traditional row now this
is all being done with the bactine
method using the wood chips and such but
the reason we want to try this is number
one we've always had the question which
one was really better which one was
easier better production all those
questions but also because it just kind
of makes sense when we're talking about
back to eatin we're talking about
putting nature back the way that it that
originally was the way that God put it
so when you think about how
plants situated in nature not familiar
with them being in rows I'm familiar
with them being in clumps so it kind of
makes me think about Square Foot
Gardening how we plant things closer
together
they almost look like little clumps so I
kind of think it complements back to
Eden and and keeps the whole process in
a more natural way but we're gonna try
both because we don't know which ways
better and that's what we have we have
set up here so we will update you on
that throughout the rest of the year and
now we're gonna go ahead and put some of
the seedlings we already have down as
well as some new seeds and I'll show you
that in just a minute
all right everybody here's what we had
started inside the house and no fair
picking on us we used what we had so
obviously you can tell the sweet corn
we've got a tray here of lavender and
rosemary that has not really taken off
yet
some parsley we've got a tray full of
pepper peas and cucumbers artichokes
tomatoes and sunflowers and to be quite
honest we're not entirely sure where the
broccoli lettuce and onions ended up so
if it's not obvious to me what is what
we're just gonna plant the plants that
look the same next to each other and and
hope for the best now I do have a
selection of organic seeds that I'm also
going to try everything else that I just
showed you is probably hybrid because
the seed packages don't mention being
organic so I'm guessing that they're not
but this is what we're gonna start off
with
everybody this is where we're gonna call
it quits for today we've got some storms
moving in and it's time just to pack it
up and get it back in the house but we
did get most of the seedlings that have
started out into the ground I do need to
mention to you one thing that's not to
equal about this test I'm not planning
the same varieties in the square foot
garden that I am in the row garden but
I'm not looking for scientific results
I'm just trying to find out generally
speaking which method is easier to do
easier to maintain and gives me a little
bit more results as far as the amount of
produce that I get out of the area it's
very difficult getting through about
four inches of wood chips to get down to
the ground and plant you know anywhere
from four to eight plants in this little
square foot area so it might just be a
lesson learn that next time if we want
to do this that we do the planting and
then put the woodchips on later come
back and give you an updated week on how
the plants are developing as well as
putting out the rest of the chips and
finishing out the rest of the garden but
for today this is where we see onions
cayenne peppers and potatoes and corn
and peas and broccoli and bunch of other
stuff in the ground so as they come up
and they're a little bit more fun to
talk about will show them to you then
but until now thank you for watching
please subscribe and have a good day
you